---
title: 🚀 NUO-STEMS 3.0.0 released
tags: [news]
slug: release-3-0-0
---

demucs v4, GPU acceleration, new UI, and more.

<!-- truncate -->

- **New algorithm: demucs v4** (both "htdemucs & htdemucs_ft"). Shall provide better quality, especially for vocals.
  - "demucs v3" is still available as an option (it is the default algorithm of NUO-STEMS v2)
- **GPU acceleration support** for both Mac & Windows.
  - Windows requirements: NVIDIA GPU (7 GB of VRAM is recommended as less might bring unexpected behavior)
  - Mac requirements:
    - Apple silicon or AMD GPUs
    - macOS 12.3 or later
- **Completely new UI** & technology stack
- **Save Instrumental & Acapella (e.g. for Serato, Rekordbox & Other)**
- On the first launch you can select algorithm & output folder. These can be changed later in Settings.
- Convert page:
  - Ability to Start / Stop conversion
  - "Queue" is restored after application restart
  - Select individual files by:
    - drag-and-drop
    - clicking a button
  - Select full folder of files
    - depending on your settings will maintain the output structure as in input folder
  - See progress of adding tracks to the Queue
  - Program automatically finds .stem.m4a files in the output directory & proposes to:
    - Skip adding originals to the Queue
    - Overwrite (add originals to the Queue)
  - Option to add new tracks either to the "Top of the Queue" or "Bottom of the Queue"
  - See artwork, artist, title, duration & file locations (input & output) in the "Queue"
  - Right-click on any track in the Queue:
    - "Move to top of Queue" -- move it to the top of the Queue for processing as soon as possible.
    - "Reset Track Progress" -- resets progress to 0% (useful when you changed settings & want to re-process the track)
    - "Remove from Queue" -- removes track from the Queue so that it's not processed.
  - "Clear Queue" -- removes all the tracks from the Queue. Additionally, shows modal window to confirm this action.
  - "Search" -- input field that lets you search all the tracks in the Queue, so that you can remove/move to top/reset track progress easier & faster
  - "Scroll to top of Queue" button
  - "Scroll to currently processing track" button
  - Show currently selected algorithm at the top of the page
  - Show overall conversion progress in the menu on the left
  - Tiles with Benchmark, Time Remaining & Processed Tracks information
  - Each time the application is launched -- show modal whether to remove completed (100%) tracks from the queue
- Traktor Utilities:
  - "Metadata Transfer" (enabled by default on launch) & "STEMS Colors" (disabled by default on launch) are now toggles in "Traktor Utilities" (the were previously separate pages in NUO-STEMS v2)
  - **New, highly accurate algorithm to transfer Hotcues & Beatgrids that eliminates "drift"**. It's slower than in NUO-STEMS v2, but provides precise results
  - **STEMS colors preset** (including custom selected) is now saved & restored on application restart
  - **Automatic detection of latest Traktor Pro collection.nml**
    - collection.nml is loaded on application startup to speed up the process
  - Transfer now shows progress in % and currently transferring track
  - Now, all metadata properties shall be copied (previously some might be missing, like "Comment 2")
  - Custom select your collection.nml
  - Backup folder is now called "Collection Backups NUO-STEMS 3"
  - "Refresh" button to reload collection.nml (in case in was changed after initial load)
  - "Default collection" button to revert selected collection.nml to automatically detected (in case you previously manually selected another collection.nml)
  - "Process only recent #" input field let's you limit the amount of tracks from the end of the collection that will be transferred. Useful when you incrementally add new track to your library, convert them to .stem.m4a & want to transfer metadata only for the newly added ones
  - "See matched tracks" accordion. Lets you see all the pairs that were discovered in your collection.nml (original & .stem.m4a version)
- Settings
  - All settings are now "persistent" -- saved automatically & restored on application restart
  - General:
    - Algorithm select
      - htdemucs_ft (demucs v4) -- fine-tuned version of 'htdemucs' algorithm, provides highest quality at 4x slower processing time than 'htdemucs'
      - htdemucs (demucs v4) -- fastest algorithm, provides balance between speed and quality
      - mdx_extra (demucs v3) -- highest quality algorithm from demucs v3. Was used in NUO-STEMS v2. Sometimes might bring better results than 'htdemucs_ft'
    - "Same as Original" output location -- save .stem.m4a to the same location as original track. (also applies to .wav individual stems if set in settings)
    - Custom Output Folder -- folder to save all the output files (.stem.m4a & .wav stems if set in settings).
      - show currently selected output directory path
    - "Same as Original" when selecting "Input Folder" -- files in "Custom Output Folder" maintain the structure of input folder. (This applies only when selecting "Folder" as input). *This was the default behavior for "Select Input Folder" in NUO-STEMS v2*
    - Save .wav -- save individual stems (drums, bass, other, vocals) additionally as .wav
    - Save Instrumental & Acapella (e.g. for Serato, Rekordbox & Other). Also transfers metadata. Output available in WAV & MP3 @ 320 kbps
    - Save .stem.m4a -- core feature of NUO-STEMS. Can be disabled in case you are using NUO-STEMS only for generating Instrumentals & Acapellas or invidvidual .wav stems.
    - STEMS colors -- These colors apply only to newly converted STEMS. If you already processed STEM file & want to change it's colors -- please use "Traktor Utilities"
    - Position of newly added tracks in the queue (top or bottom) -- applies to both 'drag & drop' as well as selecting files by clicking a button
  - Advanced:
    - Number of CPU cores -- control how many cores are used for STEMS conversion.
    - GPU Acceleration (Requires Windows operating system with NVIDIA GPU) -- About 7GB of GPU VRAM will be required. If your processing is stuck or fails on GPU -- please select "CPU" option.
    - ALAC compression of .stem.m4a (experimental). Seem to currently play back only on Traktor Pro on Mac OS (as of May 2023).
    - STEMS Metadata (experimental) -- in-depth setup of how your .stem.m4a file is processed by Traktor Pro. You can changes settings for compressor & limiter.
    - Open Logs -- for troubleshooting with technical support
    - Hard Reset -- Removes all your app preferences, window size & position, and other app configurations. Sometimes may help if experiencing issues
  - Activation & License
    - Show license type (demo / perpetual / patreon)
    - Added section "How to transfer license to another computer" FAQ
- App Info:
  - Changelog is now available within the app
- Additional:
  - Many "tooltips" were added across the application to show hint on hover
  - "Update" version is now embedded into the application -- it notifies when update is available & let's you install it without the need to go to the website
  - Overall conversion progress is now visually displayed on the application icon in dock
