---
slug: release-3-1-0-alpha-17
title: Release 3.1.0-alpha.17
tags: [news]
---

## 3.1.0-alpha.17 - 30 June 2024

This version includes improvements from 3.1.0-beta.1.

Download this version if you want to participate in alpha test. All communication on alpha-beta-testing is happening on FB group: (https://www.facebook.com/groups/nuostems)

### Traktor Utilities:

- New table view. Sorting & Filtering
- Now it shows all tracks in Traktor Collection. Both the ones that have STEMS & the ones that don't
- See algorithm of the STEMS track that is already created for the original
- Filter whole table to see STEMS tracks of particular algorithm
- Add tracks from Traktor Utilities table directly to the Queue (Convert page)
  - Option to add these tracks as "Traktor" type tracks in queue. "Traktor" tracks in the Queue (have Traktor logo next to them) trigger adding them to the collection.nml once the conversion is done, along with transferring metadata/beatgrid/hotcues. This part is very experimental, but worked pretty good in my testing. This means that you now don't need to add STEMS to Traktor manually -- it's done by NUO-STEMS itself.
- "Change STEMS colours" is now a separate button. Also, colours selection is now using colours from General Settings page.
- "Transfer" button is now "Sync" button.
  - Sufficient speed improvements when transferring metadata/hotcues/beatgrid
- Settings related to "Traktor Utilities" are now part of "Settings" page.
- Buttons to select collection, refresh collection, reset collection are now simplified and put at the top bar of the app.
- "Instructions" button is now put at the top bar of the app.
- Each track now has "add to queue" button
- Each track now has "delete" button to remove STEMS file from collection & also put the file to system trash bin
- Multi-select tracks to "add to queue" or "delete"
- Ability to manually set "offset" for transferring hotcues & beatgrid between original & STEMS versions of the track. Now more streamlined & has "dashed border" if manual offset is set.
- Modal window to "remove" STEMS files.
- Modal window to "reconvert" STEMS tracks when existing STEMS track algorithm is different from the "Settings" algorithm.
- Modal window to "replace-regular-with-traktor". When tracks were added to the Queue as just regular tracks, but you want to replace them with "Traktor" tracks type (which, as described above, adds these STEMS tracks to collection once the conversion is done in the Queue)
- "Lonely STEMS" actions at the app start. What to do in case there is no matching Original track in Traktor Collection. For example, you deleted Original track from the collection & want STEMS version to be deleted automatically.

### Various UI cleanups

- stuff

### Convert page

- Now tracks that were added to the Queue from "Traktor Utilities" page as "Traktor" tracks have Traktor Pro logo next to them.
