---
slug: release-3-1-0-beta-2
title: Release 3.1.0-beta.2
tags: [news]
---

## 3.1.0-beta.2 - 18 October 2024

Includes everything from 3.1.0-alpha releases prior to this date:

<!-- truncate -->

- Updates:
  - **"mel_band_roformer"** -- new algorithm with insane quality of vocals, improved drums, bass & other stems.
  - **New AAC Encoder on Windows** -- QAAC (instead of FFMPEG aac). On Windows, NUO-STEMS is now using QAAC as AAC encoder. In simple terms: 256 AAC compression of stems shall be significantly improved resulting in higher quality. QAAC provides results that are almost identical to Mac AAC encoding.
  - **NEW Feature: "AI distribute on 'drums' and 'other' stem"** -- when using "sum of stems = original", new option is now selected by default.
    - It substantially cleans up "other" stem from leftovers of drums & percussion, while keeping "sum of stems = original"
  - New "Added silence duration feature". 100ms of additional silence was introduced in early versions of 3.1.0-alpha. Now there is an option to enable/disable adding 100ms of silence to the beginning of the track.
  - Saving .wav stems now has additional option -- "Template of the filename". You can now select whether you want to append/prepend original filename to each individual stem, or leave it without it. (example: filename_vocals.wav)
  - Fixed issue when lyrics of input file contained special characters that caused program to freeze
  - Fixed issue when mono files where added to the queue
  - added .mp4 as supported extension for adding to the queue
  - "Load Traktor Collection" disable option. If disabled -- Traktor collection won't be loaded & Traktor Utilities will be disabled
  - Auto-detect CPU or GPU acceleration
  - Traktor Utilities:
    - New table view. Sorting & Filtering
    - Now it shows all tracks in Traktor Collection. Both the ones that have STEMS & the ones that don't
    - See algorithm of the STEMS track that is already created for the original
    - Filter whole table to see STEMS tracks of particular algorithm
    - Add tracks from Traktor Utilities table directly to the Queue (Convert page)
      - Option to add these tracks as "Traktor" type tracks in queue. "Traktor" tracks in the Queue (have Traktor logo next to them) trigger adding them to the collection.nml once the conversion is done, along with transferring metadata/beatgrid/hotcues. This part is very experimental, but worked pretty good in my testing. This means that you now don't need to add STEMS to Traktor manually -- it's done by NUO-STEMS itself.
    - "Change STEMS colours" is now a separate button. Also, colours selection is now using colours from General Settings page.
    - "Transfer" button is now "Sync" button.
      - Sufficient speed improvements when transferring metadata/hotcues/beatgrid
    - Settings related to "Traktor Utilities" are now part of "Settings" page.
    - Buttons to select collection, refresh collection, reset collection are now simplified and put at the top bar of the app.
    - "Instructions" button is now put at the top bar of the app.
    - Each track now has "add to queue" button
    - Each track now has "delete" button to remove STEMS file from collection & also put the file to system trash bin
    - Multi-select tracks to "add to queue" or "delete"
    - Ability to manually set "offset" for transferring hotcues & beatgrid between original & STEMS versions of the track. Now more streamlined & has "dashed border" if manual offset is set.
    - Modal window to "remove" STEMS files.
    - Modal window to "reconvert" STEMS tracks when existing STEMS track algorithm is different from the "Settings" algorithm.
    - Modal window to "replace-regular-with-traktor". When tracks were added to the Queue as just regular tracks, but you want to replace them with "Traktor" tracks type (which, as described above, adds these STEMS tracks to collection once the conversion is done in the Queue)
    - "Lonely STEMS" actions at the app start. What to do in case there is no matching Original track in Traktor Collection. For example, you deleted Original track from the collection & want STEMS version to be deleted automatically
